# TCP-lite

Transporting packets over wireless connection to carry information, voice, video, audio for the communication purposes needs an Internet Protocol (IP) like TCP, UDP. Transmission Control Protocol (TCP) is a connection oriented stream over an IP network. It guarantees that all sent packets will reach the destination in the correct order. User Datagram Protocol (UDP) is a connection-less protocol. Communication is datagram oriented. The integrity is guaranteed only on the single datagram. Datagrams reach destination and can arrive out of order or don't arrive at all. It is more efficient than TCP because it doesn’t use ACK. It's generally used for real time communication, where a little percentage of packet loss rate is preferable to the overhead of a TCP connection. To have good throughput with congestion avoidance capabilities, we need TCP but it performs all these functions via system calls in kernel mode, which is very time consuming and results in heavy processing. This can be overcome using user mode which can pace up the processing speed with crash recovery abilities. This project aims to provide all the features of TCP like flow control, error control, packet retransmission, congestion control etc. in the User datagram protocol to reduce some of the system calls for improved throughput efficiency w.r.t. time. It implements TCP NewReno protocol at the application layer over UDP explaining the basic implementation details of the protocol like the sender/receiver window, the state machine for connection set up and close, etc. including features like packet retransmission, congestion control and flow control.
